1 - Database connection is not required but it is how most of the data is generated. As long as you or whoever is using the program is connected via ethernet as normal and has valid access to the DB, the program should be able to connect you. 



2 - The first thing you should do is create a workspace (that's what I call the application data file) which contains all the data sources required for the program's features. It's really simple to do as long as you were able to connect to the database from the program (if you didn't get a warning when it started then that mean's you're connected). All you have to do is press the connection button (circular white-grayish button in the top right next to the search box) and all clients will be imported directly from CertusDB. Then, you may notice the drop down list under the search box now has the text "Select one...". This list now has all the clients and if you select one, say CBRE <36>, then all of the data tied to CBRE necessary for the program to work will be pulled from the database. After picking a client, you can select Data > Data Sources from the tool strip menu and you will see the data structures loaded into the program. The first two are hardcoded, clients are generated from first clicking the connection button, and all the rest are dynamically generated every time you select a client. These are the sources which many of the item edit features rely on. I'll explain those next... One more important thing with the Workspace is the workflow items. At this point, you can save the Workspace as a sort of blank template for which ever client you selected and then from here on out you can just load this workspace and add workflow items whenever you feel like it instead of repeating the steps from before. This will mean that data isn't up to date however so It's up to you. For the workflow items, they used to all be imported from the Workflow Item Report CSV files but now you can just press the 'Import from Database" ribbon option (to the right of the label which says 'Update Items') and select the items you want imported. One important thing about this is that the program will think